\page geometric_streaming_mapper Geometry mapper and streaming mapper

## Overview

This document describes how to process and fuse depth and image data
coming from an Astrobee robot. The two main tools are:

 - The geometry mapper: This tool handles offline processing of robot
   data to create a dense 3D model of robot's environment and a
   texture overlaid on top of it.

 - The streaming mapper: This is a ROS node that takes as input a
    previously computed 3D model using the geometry mapper, a current
    image and pose as the robot flies around the
    environment, and computes and publishes an updated texture.

## Setting up the environment

The following environmental variables should be set up (please adjust
them for your particular configuration):

    export ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH=$HOME/astrobee/src
    export ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH=$HOME/astrobee
    export ISAAC_WS=$HOME/isaac

## Robot sensors

This software makes use of three sensors that are mounted on the front
face of the robot:

 - haz cam: A low-resolution depth and intensity camera
 - nav cam: A wide field of view medium-resolution navigation camera
 - sci cam: A high-resolution narrow field of view "science" camera

The nav cam is used to determine robot's position and orientation as
it explores its environment.

Based on this, and the transform between the nav and haz cameras, the
haz cam depth readings are fused into a dense 3D model of the
environment.

The sci cam is then used to texture this model. Alternatively, the nav
cam pictures can be used for the texture as well.

An important note here is that the haz cam takes measurements about
five times per second, the nav cam perhaps twice per second, while the
science camera is triggered by an explicit command to take a picture,
unless set in continuous picture-taking mode. This aspect of the sci
cam will be elaborated later on.

## Actual vs simulated robot data

To be able to obtain high-fidelity results based on fusing the
readings of these sensors, as described earlier, a lot of careful work
needs to be done, that we discuss later in much detail. In particular,
the intrinsics of all the cameras must be calibrated accurately, the
transforms between their poses must be found, a sparse map based on
the nav cam data must be computed and registered, and various
conversions and interpolations (in time) between these sensors must be
computed.

These problems are greatly simplified with simulated data, when we
assume perfectly known cameras, including their intrinsics, how they
relate to each other, and their poses in space at any time. Hence,
working with simulated data makes it easy to test core aspects of this
sensor fusion functionality in a simplified setting.

The drawback is that having two such sources of input data complicates
the presentation of these tools. Some of them will be relevant only
for one of the two data types, and some tools that apply to both may
have different invocations for each case. The reader is advised to
keep close attention to this, and we will make it clear at every step
about which of the two paradigms one refers to.

## Additional sensors present only in simulation

A number of robot sensors are present only as part of the simulator.
This is discussed further down the document.

## Compiling the software

It is assumed that by now the Astrobee and ISAAC software is compiled.

This module depends on two additional pieces of software, Voxblox and
CGAL.

### Compiling VoxBlox

To compile Voxblox, clone

    https://github.com/oleg-alexandrov/voxblox/

(branch master). This fork differs from the main repository at
https://github.com/ethz-asl/voxblox by the introduction of a small
tool named batch_tsdf.cc that reads the clouds to fuse and the
transforms from disk and writes the output mesh back to disk, instead
of using ROS. It also can take into account a point's reliability when
fusing the clouds, which is computed by the geometry mapper.

Compile it using the instructions at:

    https://github.com/oleg-alexandrov/voxblox/blob/master/docs/pages/Installation.rst

This should end up creating the program:

    $HOME/catkin_ws/devel/lib/voxblox_ros/batch_tsdf

### Compiling CGAL

Compile the CGAL tools following the instructions at:

    https://github.com/oleg-alexandrov/cgal_tools

This should create some programs in:

    $HOME/projects/cgal_tools
 
### CGAL license    

CGAL is released under the GPL. Care must be taken to not include it
or to link to it in any ISAAC code. Using CGAL as standalone tools
does not infringe upon GPL.

### Functionality provided by CGAL

The tools just compiled are used for smoothing meshes, filling holes,
remeshing, removing small connected components, and simplifying the
mesh. The geometry mapper can work even without these, but they
produce nicer results. The geometry mapper uses all of them except the
experimental remeshing tool.

## Data acquisition

### With real data

Acquire a bag of data on the bot. The current approach is to use a
recording profile. A step-by-step procedure is outlined below if a
recording profile has not been set up.

First give the bot the ability to acquire intensity data with the
depth camera (haz_cam).  For that, connect to the MLP processor of the
bot. Edit the file:

    /opt/astrobee/config/cameras.config

Go to the section:

    picoflexx = {
      api_key = "",

and insert between the quotes the magic number which is not documented
as it is not public. If that is not done, depth point clouds will
still be produced, but without the intensity.

Every time the software on the robot is reinstalled this number get
forgotten, so it needs to be put back.

Next, open several connections to the LLP processor of astrobee as:

    ssh astrobee@llp_ip_address

In the first terminal on the bot, run:

    roslaunch astrobee astrobee.launch mlp:=mlp llp:=llp

In the second one, run:

    roslaunch /opt/astrobee/share/pico_driver/launch/pico_proxy.launch

In another terminal on LLP start the sci cam, as described in:

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/submodules/android/gs_examples/sci_cam_image/readme.md

If you acquire data for calibration, or even for mapping, you may want
to turn on continuous picture taking for the sci cam as described
there.

Note: It is easier to use adb control the camera, per the instructions
at the bottom of that document, than by using the guest science
manager.

In another terminal on LLP, do

    cd /data/bags
    rosbag record /hw/cam_nav /hw/depth_haz/points                   \
      /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int /hw/cam_sci/compressed

Scan a wall or a larger area with the bot facing the wall as much as
possible, and carefully scan objects jutting out of the wall. Later
one can also acquire images with various camera positions and
orientations, which help build an accurate sparse map, but those
should not be used when fusing the depth clouds or in texturing.

Copy the resulting bag off the robot.

### With simulated data

#### Cameras present in simulation

The astrobee simulator supports a handful of cameras, including
``nav_cam``, ``sci_cam``, ``haz_cam``, ``heat_cam``,
``acoustics_cam``, etc. All these have been tested with the gemetry
mapper and streaming mapper.

The ``sci_cam`` and ``haz_cam`` cameras are not enabled by default in
the simulator. To enable them, edit the simulation configuration, in

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config/simulation/simulation.config

and set:

    haz_cam_rate = 1.0;
    sci_cam_rate = 1.0;
    sci_cam_continuous_picture_taking = true;

The later will make sure sci cam pictures are taken automatically. If
custom behavior is desired, see:

    $ISAAC_WS/src/astrobee/behaviors/inspection/readme.md

More information about the simulated nav_cam, haz_cam, and sci_cam is
at:

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/simulation/readme.md

The heat camera is described in:

    $ISAAC_WS/src/astrobee/simulation/gazebo/readme.md

The acoustics camera and how to enable it is documented at:

    $ISAAC_WS/src/astrobee/simulation/acoustics_cam/readme.md

#### Recording simulated data

Start the simulator, such as:

    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    roslaunch isaac sim.launch rviz:=true dds:=false \
      pose:="11.0 -7.0 5.0 0 0 0 1" world:=iss

In rviz turn on visualizing the desired cameras cameras from the
Panels menu, as otherwise the needed camera topics may not be
published.

Adjust the 3D view in rviz with the mouse so that the robot, which is
present in the middle of the module, can be seen.

When recording simulated data for a given camera, for example, for
``sci_cam``, so that later it can be used with the geometry and
streaming mapper, one needs to record, in addition to depth clouds and
camera images, also the camera poses and intrinsics information, which
is done as follows:

    rosbag record /hw/depth_haz/points                           \
      /hw/cam_sci/compressed /sim/sci_cam/pose /sim/sci_cam/info

It is good to check for the precise name of the camera image topic.
For haz cam the image topic will be instead:

    /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int

For nav cam, the image topic will be:

    /hw/cam_nav

and the same convention is followed for the rest of the cameras.

If desired to record data for many cameras, these topics must
be specified for each of them. For example, for ``heat_cam`` add
the lines:

      /hw/cam_heat /sim/heat_cam/pose /sim/heat_cam/info

to the ``rosbag record`` command.

The robot can be told to move around by either running a plan, or by
sending it a move command, such as:

    rosrun mobility teleop -move -pos "11.0 -5.0 5.0" -tolerance_pos 0.0001 -att "0 0 0 1"

when it will go along the module axis while not changing its orientation.

## Data pre-processing

This applies only to real data.

If the recorded data is split into many small bags, as it often happens on the
ISS, those bags should be first merged as documented in:

     $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/localization/sparse_mapping/readme.md

In order to save bandwidth, the sci cam images are published at a
reduced resolution (usually 640x480 pixels), while the full-resolution
pictures are saved to disk in a directory on HLP. That directory needs
to be fetched (see the sci cam documentation for details) and the
pictures integrated into the bag with the command:

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/add_sci_cam_to_bag \
        -input_bag <input.bag> -output_bag <output.bag>    \
        -sci_cam_dir <sci_cam_dir>                         \
        -sci_cam_topic /hw/cam_sci/compressed

Any images in the input bag on the sci cam topic (presumably previews)
will be removed before the images from the sci cam directory are
appended. Only the images from the directory whose timestamp is within
the time range of what is in the bag already will be added.

EXIF metadata from the sci cam images (exposure, ISO sensitivity,
aperture, and focal length) will be saved in the bag file as well.

(Normally the sci cam data will be downloaded from the HLP of ISS
robots using some established infrastructure. Alternatively, one can
use `adb pull`. After this tool is used, the data can be manually
deleted from HLP by first connecting to it with `adb shell`.)

In order to run camera_calibrator, the sci cam data in the bag needs to
be decompressed, resized to 1/4 of the resolution, and made to be
grayscale. This is needed since the sci cam images are a little blurry
and, at full resolution, the corners of the calibration target are
hard to detect. The calibrator also does not handle the color format
in the bag, hence the switch to grayscale images.

However, both the geometry and the streaming mapper, as well as
camera_refiner, can handle both color and grayscale images, and both
at reduced resolution and full-resolution. These tools can adjust for
the fact that the calibration was done at reduced resolution.

To accomplish this processing, once the sci cam data is integrated
into the bag, one can do the following: 

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/scale_bag --input_bag input.bag \
      --output_bag output.bag --image_type grayscale --scale 0.25

Note that the processed sci cam images will be now on topic
`/hw/cam_sci2`.

## Camera calibration

Currently the calibrator solution is not that accurate. It is suggested
to use instead camera_refiner (see further down) on a bag acquired
without a calibration target.

Camera calibration is an advanced topic. Likely your robot's cameras
have been calibrated by now, and then this step can be skipped.

This step applies only to real data and not to simulated data.

Data for calibration of the cameras should be acquired and processed
as described earlier, to reduce the image resolution and to make them
grayscale. The sci cam should be configured beforehand to take
pictures continuously.

Traditionally, the robot cameras have been calibrated using Kalibr,
using the instructions at 

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/scripts/calibrate/readme.md

While Kalibr returns good results for calibrating the nav cam, it is
unable to calibrate the depth portion of the haz cam, and cannot model
the fact that there may be a systematic offset between the time stamps
recorded by the various cameras (the reason for this offset is because
the published time can differ slightly than the true time at which the
image is taken).

It is recommended to use instead the calibrator provided with this
software, which can take care of those issues. The procedure to use it
is as follows.

First invoke Kalibr to save to disk the corners of the calibration
target it detects from the bag. That can be done as follows. (This
builds upon the instructions used in the doc referenced right above.)

    source $KALIBR_WS/devel/setup.bash
    rosrun kalibr kalibr_calibrate_cameras                                           \
      --topics /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record                                 \
               /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int                                  \
               /hw/cam_sci2                                                          \
      --models pinhole-fov pinhole-radtan pinhole-radtan                             \
      --target $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/scripts/calibrate/config/granite_april_tag.yaml \
      --bag calibration.bag --dont-show-report --verbose                             \
      --target_corners_dirs calib_nav calib_haz calib_sci

Note that above we assume that the image sampler was used to collect a
subset of the nav cam images. Otherwise the nav cam topic would be
/hw/cam_nav.

This will create three directories with the corners extracted from the
nav, haz, and sci cameras.

Next, set up the environment:

    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2

Note the name of the robot, in this case it is 'bsharp2'. When the
calibrator is invoked, it will look for the configuration file named

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config/robots/bsharp2.config

and will modify it in-place. If you would like to calibrate a new
robot, first create the corresponding config file by necessarily
making a copy of an existing one.

The calibrator program is at: 

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/camera_calibrator

It can be used to calibrate the intrinsics of the nav and haz camera
pair, and then of the sci and haz pair. These are referred to as
`cam1` and `cam2` below. 

It is important to remember that the haz cam records both an image
intensity and a depth point cloud.

Its options are:
    
    --cam1_name: A string. The name of the first camera. Must be
        'nav_cam' or 'sci_cam'.

    --cam2_name: A string. The name of the second camera. Must be
        'haz_cam'.

    --cam1_dir: A string. The directory having the corners extracted
        from cam1 images using Kalibr.

    --cam2_dir: A string. The directory having the corners extracted
        from cam2 images using Kalibr.

    --bag: A string. The ros bag having the calibration data.

    --haz_cam_points_topic. A string. The depth point cloud topic in
        the bag file. The default is /hw/depth_haz/points.

    --start: A double. The starting time in seconds from which to
        process the bag. The default is 0.0 (beginning of the
        bag).

    --duration: A double. Specify how many seconds from the bag to
        process. The default is -1 (process the whole bag).

    --update_cam1: A boolean. Update the intrinsics of cam1. The
        default is 'false'.

    --update_cam2: A boolean. Update the intrinsics of cam2. The
        default is 'false'.

    --update_depth_to_image_transform: A boolean. Update the transform
        to apply to scale correctly the depth camera clouds. The
        default is 'false'.

    --update_extrinsics: A boolean. Update the transform from cam2 to
        cam1. The default is 'false'.

    --timestamp_offset_sampling: A string. If specified, as 'beg end
        num', create num samples between beg and end, and determine
        the timestamp offset between these cameras as the sample
        minimizing the extrinsics error among cam1 and cam2.

    --cam1_intrinsics_to_float: A string. Refine 0 or more of the
        following intrinsics for cam1: focal_length, optical_center,
        distortion. Specify as a quoted list. For example: 
        'focal_length optical_center'.
  
    --cam2_intrinsics_to_float: A string. Refine 0 or more of the
        following intrinsics for cam2: focal_length, optical_center,
        distortion. Specify as a quoted list. For example: 
        'focal_length optical_center'.

    --num_cam1_focal_lengths: An integer. If set to 2, use separate
        focal lengths along image rows and columns for cam1. Else use
        the same one. The default is 1.

    --num_cam2_focal_lengths: An integer. If set to 2, use separate
        focal lengths along image rows and columns for cam2. Else use
        the same one. The default is 1.

    --num_cam1_iterations: An integer. How many solver iterations to
        perform to solve for cam1 intrinsics. The default is 10000.

    --num_cam2_iterations: An integer. How many solver iterations to
        perform to solve for cam2 intrinsics. The default is 10000.

    --num_extrinsics_iterations: An integer. How many solver
        iterations to perform to solve for extrinsics. The default is
        10000.

    --robust_threshold: A double. Pixel errors much larger than this
        will be exponentially attenuated to affect less the cost
        function. This should not be too low, as if the initial guess
        is off, initial pixel errors can be rather large. The default
        is 4.0.

    --parameter_tolerance: A double. Stop when the optimization
        variables change by less than this. The default is 1e-12.

    --calib_num_ransac_iterations: An integer. Use in this many RANSAC
        iterations to find camera poses based on calibration target
        measurements. The default is 1000.

    --calib_ransac_inlier_tolerance: An integer. Use this inlier
        tolerance (in pixels) to find camera poses. The default is 10.

    --max_interp_dist: A double. If two consecutive camera poses have
        timestamps that differ more than this, do not interpolate
        between them. The default is 4.0.

    --max_haz_cam_image_to_depth_timestamp_diff: A double. Use depth
        haz cam clouds that are within this distance in time from the
        nearest haz cam intensity image. The default is 0.2.

    --output_dir: A string. If provided, write here the residuals
        (differences between pixel target corners and projection into
        cameras of measured target points) before and after
        optimization.

An example of calibrating the nav and haz cam pairs. (Ensure that the
robot name was set as described earlier, and keep in mind that this
tool will modify robot's config file in place.)

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/camera_calibrator                   \
        --start 0 --duration 300 --cam1_name nav_cam --cam1_dir calib_nav   \
        --cam2_name haz_cam --cam2_dir calib_haz                            \
        --haz_cam_points_topic /hw/depth_haz/points --bag mybag.bag         \
        --update_cam2                                                       \
        --cam2_intrinsics_to_float 'focal_length optical_center'            \
        --num_cam2_iterations 10000 --num_cam2_focal_lengths 1              \
        --update_extrinsics                                                 \
        --update_depth_to_image_transform                                   \
        --timestamp_offset_sampling '-0.03 -0.01 5'

The last two options better not be used at all, or with a lot of
care. 

This tool can return an incorrect solution for distortion unless a lot
of care is taken to have many target points at the periphery of the
sensor. If in doubt, that parameter better be kept fixed. The camera
refiner can refine the sci cam intrinsics and will likely do a better
job.

It was found experimentally that the depth to image transform
which is updated by `--update_depth_to_image_transform`
depends very much on how far the calibration target is from the
camera. The value of `hazcam_depth_to_image_transform` already in the
robot config file, which shows roughly a scale transform with a factor
of 0.95 is good enough.

One has to be also be careful with the option
`--timestamp_offset_sampling`, and even avoid using it in a first
pass.
  
Notice that here we chose to not update the intrinsics of cam1 (nav_cam).
That is because this camera was calibrated with Kalibr a while ago and it
is known to be accurate. If desired to calibrate it, one can add the option
`--update_cam1`.

Only if after using the geometry mapper one notices visible
registration errors (which manifest themselves as artifacts in the
texture output by this tool), should one consider tweaking the
parameters controlled by these options.

The next step is to calibrate the sci cam and haz cam pairs, which 
can go as follows:

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/camera_calibrator                   \
        --start 0 --duration 300 --cam1_name sci_cam --cam1_dir calib_sci   \
        --cam2_name haz_cam --cam2_dir calib_haz                            \
        --haz_cam_points_topic /hw/depth_haz/points --bag mybag.bag         \
        --update_cam1                                                       \
        --cam1_intrinsics_to_float 'focal_length optical_center'            \
        --num_cam1_iterations 10000 --num_cam1_focal_lengths 1              \
        --update_extrinsics                                                 \
        --timestamp_offset_sampling '-0.35 -0.15 11'

As before, one better not use the option `--timestamp_offset_sampling`
unless one is sure it is necessary.

Note that this time we optimize the intrinsics of cam1 (sci_cam)
and we do not use `--update_depth_to_image_transform` or optimize
the intrinsics of cam2 (haz_cam) as this was already done earlier.
We do not optimize the distortion of cam1 as that can result in
incorrect values if there are not enough measurements at image periphery.
The distortion is best optimized with the camera refiner (see below).

Optionally, one can try to further refine the calibration if not good
enough when used with data collected while the bot is flying around
doing inspection. This is an advanced topic which is handled further
down this document, in the section on camera refinement.

## Data extraction

Nav cam images can be extracted from a bag as follows:

    $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/localization_node/extract_image_bag \
      mydata.bag -image_topic /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record    \
      -output_directory nav_data -use_timestamp_as_image_name

The last option, `-use_timestamp_as_image_name`, must not be missed.
It makes it easy to look up the image acquisition based on image name,
and this is used by the geometry mapper.

One should check beforehand if the nav cam topic is correct. If the image
sampler was not used, the nav cam topic would be /hw/cam_nav.

To extract the sci cam data, if necessary, do:

    $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/localization_node/extract_image_bag \
     mydata.bag -image_topic /hw/cam_sci/compressed                    \
     -output_directory sci_data -use_timestamp_as_image_name

To extract the depth clouds, which may be useful for debugging purposes,
do:

    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/extract_pc_from_bag mydata.bag \
       -topic /hw/depth_haz/points -output_directory pc_data           \
       -use_timestamp_as_image_name

## Map building and registration

Build and register a SURF sparse map with the nav cam images. (This is
needed only with real data.) 

An example for how to collect images and build a map is shown later in
this doc, in the section about camera refinement. See also the
reference documentation in

    $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/localization/sparse_mapping/readme.md

and also in build_map.md in that repository. 

This SURF map will be used with the geometry mapper. Rebuild it with
BRISK features, to be used with the streaming mapper. Examine the
BRISK obtained map. If it does not have enough features, rebuild it
with a lower value of -default_brisk_threshold and
-max_brisk_threshold (For example, use 70 instead of the default of
90. This may make the sparse map bigger.)

It is suggested to not use the `--histogram_equalization` flag for the
SURF map, but to use it with the BRISK map.

Don't forget to set:

    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=<robot name>

and the other environmental variables from that document before running
map-building.

It is very important to keep in the map at least one nav cam image
whose timestamp is a couple of seconds before the sci cam image that
we would like to later overlay on top of the mesh created with with
the help of this map, and one nav cam image a couple of seconds after
the last sci cam image we would like to keep, to ensure we process all
sci cam images with the geometry mapper.

# Running the geometry mapper

## When using real data

The geometry mapper fuses the depth cloud data and creates textures
from the image cameras.

Any image camera is supported, as long as present in the robot
configuration file and a topic for it is in the bag file (see more
details further down). The geometry mapper can handle both color and
grayscale images, and, for sci cam, both full and reduced resolution.

Ensure that the bot name is correct below. Set `ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH`,
`ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH`, and `ISAAC_WS` as earlier. Run:

    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    python $ISAAC_WS/src/dense_map/geometry_mapper/tools/geometry_mapper.py \
      --ros_bag data.bag                                                    \
      --sparse_map nav_data.map                                             \
      --camera_types "sci_cam nav_cam haz_cam"                              \
      --camera_topics "/hw/cam_sci/compressed /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int"\
      --undistorted_crop_wins "sci_cam,1250,1000 nav_cam,1100,776 haz_cam,210,160" \
      --haz_cam_points_topic /hw/depth_haz/points                           \
      --start 0                                                             \
      --duration 1e+10                                                      \
      --sampling_spacing_seconds 5                                          \
      --dist_between_processed_cams 0.1                                     \
      --depth_exclude_columns 0                                             \
      --depth_exclude_rows 0                                                \
      --foreshortening_delta 5.0                                            \
      --median_filters "7 0.1 25 0.1"                                       \
      --reliability_weight_exponent 2                                       \
      --voxblox_integrator merged                                           \
      --depth_hole_fill_diameter 30.0                                       \
      --max_ray_length 2.5                                                  \
      --voxel_size 0.01                                                     \
      --max_iso_times_exposure 5.1                                          \
      --smoothing_time 5e-6                                                 \
      --max_num_hole_edges 8000                                             \
      --max_hole_diameter 1.8                                               \
      --num_min_faces_in_component 100                                      \
      --num_components_to_keep 100                                          \
      --edge_keep_ratio 0.2                                                 \
      --output_dir data_dir                                                 \
      --verbose

Parameters:

    --ros_bag: A ROS bag with recorded image and point cloud data.
    --sparse_map: A registered SURF sparse map of a subset of the nav_cam data.
    --camera_types: Specify the cameras to use for the textures, as a list
      in quotes. Default: "sci_cam nav_cam haz_cam". With simulated
      data only ``sci_cam`` is supported.
    --camera_topics: Specify the bag topics for the cameras to texture
      (in the same order as in ``--camera_types``). Use a list in quotes.
      The default is in the usage above.
    --undistorted_crop_wins: The central region to keep after
      undistorting an image and before texturing. For sci_cam the
      numbers are at 1/4th of the full resolution and will be adjusted
      for the actual input image dimensions. Use a list in quotes. The
      default is "sci_cam,1250,1000 nav_cam,1100,776 haz_cam,210,160".
    --haz_cam_points_topic: The depth point cloud topic in the bag file.
    --start: How many seconds into the bag to start processing the data.
    --duration: For how many seconds to do the processing.
    --sampling_spacing_seconds: How frequently to sample the sci and haz 
      cameras, in seconds. The default is 2.
    --dist_between_processed_cams: Once an image or depth image is processed, 
      how far the camera should move (in meters) before it should process 
      more data. The default is 0.1 meters.
    --sci_cam_timestamps: Process only these sci cam timestamps (rather than 
      any in the bag using --dist_between_processed_cams, etc.). Must be 
      a file with one timestamp per line. 
    --depth_exclude_columns: Remove this many columns of data from the 
      rectangular depth image sensor at margins to avoid distortion.
      The default is 0.
    --depth_exclude_rows: Remove this many columns of data from the 
      rectangular depth image sensor at margins to avoid distortion.
      The default is 0.
    --foreshortening_delta: A smaller value here will result in holes
      in depth images being filled more aggressively but potentially
      with more artifacts in foreshortened regions.
    --median_filters: Given a list "w1 d1 w2 d2 ... ", remove a depth
      image point if it differs, in the Manhattan norm, from the median
      of cloud points in the pixel window of size wi centered at it by
      more than di. This removes points sticking out for each such i. The
      default is "7 0.1 25 0.1".
    --depth_hole_fill_diameter: Fill holes in the depth point clouds
      with this diameter, in pixels. This happens before the clouds
      are fused. It is suggested to not make this too big, as more
      hole-filling happens on the fused mesh later (see
      --max_hole_diameter). The default is 30.
    --reliability_weight_exponent: A larger value will give more
      weight to depth points corresponding to pixels closer to depth
      image center, which are considered more reliable. The default is
      2.0.
    --max_ray_length_m: Dictates at what distance from the depth camera
      to truncate the rays (in meters). This can be small if the images
      are acquired close to walls and facing them.
    --voxblox_integrator: When fusing the depth point clouds use
      this VoxBlox method. Options are: "merged", "simple", and
      "fast". The default is "merged".
    --voxel_size is the grid size used for binning the points, in meters.
    --max_iso_times_exposure: Apply the inverse gamma transform to
      images, multiply them by max_iso_times_exposure/ISO/exposure_time
      to adjust for lightning differences, then apply the gamma
      transform back. This value should be set to the maximum observed
      ISO * exposure_time. The default is 5.1. Not used with simulated data.
    --smoothing_time: A larger value will result in a smoother mesh. The default 
      is 0.00005.
    --max_num_hole_edges: Close holes in the mesh which have no more than this 
      many edges. The default is 1000.
    --max_hole_diameter: The diameter (in meters) of the largest hole in the
      mesh to fill. The default is 0.3.
    --num_min_faces_in_component: Keep only connected mesh components with 
      at least this many faces.
    --num_components_to_keep: How many of the largest connected components 
      of the mesh to keep. Being too aggressive here can result in a mesh 
      with missing parts. The default is 10.
    --edge_keep_ratio: Simply the mesh keeping only this fraction of
      the original edges. The default is 0.2.
    --output_dir: The directory where to write the processed data.
    --simulated_data: If specified, use data recorded in simulation. 
      Then haz and sci camera poses and intrinsics should be recorded in the 
      bag file (see earlier about recording simulated data).
    --localization_options: Options to to use to localize the nav cam images.
      These mostly relate to the SURF (or BRISK parameters). Default: 
      '--min_surf_features 400 --max_surf_features 600 --min_surf_threshold 5 -default_surf_threshold 10 --max_surf_threshold 1000 --early_break_landmarks 400 -verbose_localization'. 
    --use_brisk_map: If this flag is specified, instead of a SURF sparse map 
      made from the same bag that needs texturing, use a pre-existing and 
      unrelated BRISK map. This map may be more convenient but less
      reliable. In this case one must specify carefully the range of
      times in the bag to use as it will no longer be constrained by
      the timestamps in the map.
    --sci_cam_timestamps: Process only these sci cam timestamps (rather than 
      any in the bag using --dist_between_processed_cams, etc.). Must be a 
      file with one timestamp per line.
    --start_step: Start processing at this step. Useful for resuming
      work. Values: 0 (determine poses), 1 (fuse meshes), 2 (smoothe
      mesh), 3 (fill holes), 4 (clean mesh and rm small connected
      components), 5 (smoothe again), 6 (fill holes again), 7 (smoothe again),
      8 (simplify the mesh), 9 (texture mesh).
    --merge_maps: Given several output geometry mapper directories, specified 
      as a list in quotes, create a merged textured mesh. The input
      bag and sparse map will not be used. Each input geometry mapper run
      can have its own bag and sparse map. The sparse maps must be
      registered to a global coordinate system and co-registered to
      each other, such as when extracted from a larger merged and
      registered map.
    --external_mesh: Use this mesh to texture the images, rather than
      creating one from depth data in the current bag.
    --nav_cam_to_sci_cam_offset_override_value: Override the
      value of nav_cam_to_sci_cam_timestamp_offset from the robot config
      file with this value.
    --verbose: If specified, echo all output in the terminal.
    --save_debug_data: If specified, save many intermediate datasets
      for debugging.

The outputs produced by this tool are four meshes that can be visualized
with Meshlab:

  - data_dir/fused_mesh.ply: A mesh obtained by fusing the haz cam depth point clouds.
  - data_dir/smooth_mesh.ply: A smoothed version of the mesh.
  - data_dir/hole_filled_mesh.ply: A mesh obtained by filling holes in the fused mesh.
  - data_dir/clean_mesh.ply: The mesh with small connected components removed.
  - data_dir/smooth_mesh2.ply: A further smoothed version of the mesh.
  - data_dir/hole_filled_mesh2.ply: A further hole-filled mesh.
  - data_dir/simplified_mesh.ply: The simplified mesh.
  - data_dir/smooth_mesh3.ply: A further smoothed version of the mesh.
  - data_dir/nav_cam_texture/run.obj: The mesh overlayed with the nav cam texture.
  - data_dir/sci_cam_texture/run.obj: The mesh overlayed with the sci cam texture.

(Several passes of smoothing and hole-filling, as done above, appear
necessary from experiments.)

Intermediate products are the undistorted nav cam and sci cam images.
It is suggested to review those in an image viewer, such as 'eog' and
delete some of them if they cause artifacts. After that, the last part
of the pipeline (invocation of the texrecon tool) can be redone.

To run this tool it is suggested to pick a portion of the bag where
the images face the wall as much as possible, so one may need to
change the `--start` and `--duration` values.

Unless the flag `--use_brisk_map` is set, the data processing will be
restricted to the range of timestamps contained within the sparse map
(this is another restriction, in addition to `--start` and
`--duration`).

If this tool is too slow, or if localization fails, consider adjusting
the --localization_options above. For example, to make localization
work better (which will make the program slower) decrease the value of
--default_surf_threshold, and increase --early_break_landmarks,
--min_surf_features, and --max_surf_features. To make it faster,
do the opposite. 

The values of --depth_exclude_columns and --depth_exclude_rows
can be adjusted to remove rows and columns at the margins
which may result in a nicer mesh. If, for example, the bot
moves upwards or downwards, there is little loss in removing
some rows at the margins as they will be filled in from
other depth readings. Then, if there are several up-down scans
with good lateral overlap, removing some columns won't result
in much loss but may remove some noise. 

If it is desired to use only a precise subset of the sci cam images,
specify those with the option --sci_cam_timestamps.

If several acquisitions were performed, and the geometry mapper was
run with each of them, those can be merged by invoking the
geometry mapper with the option --merge_maps.

The geometry mapper can run with a previously created mesh if invoked
with the option --external_mesh. 

The most time-consuming part of the geometry mapper is computing the
initial poses, which is the earliest step, or step 0. To resume the
geometry mapper at any step, use the option '--start_step num'. For
example, one may want to apply further smoothing to the mesh or more
hole-filling, before resuming with the next steps.

For a given camera type to be textured it must have entries in
``cameras.config`` and the robot config file (such as
``bumble.config``), which are analogous to existing
``nav_cam_to_sci_cam_timestamp_offset``,
``nav_cam_to_sci_cam_transform``, and ``sci_cam`` intrinsics, with
"sci" replaced by your camera name. The geometry mapper arguments
``--camera_types``, ``--camera_topics``, and
``--undistorted_crop_wins`` must be populated accordingly, with some
careful choice to be made for the last one. Images for the desired
camera must be present in the bag file at the the specified topic.

## With simulated data

The geometry mapper works with any simulated cameras not having
distortion.  It was tested to work with simulated images for
``sci_cam``, ``haz_cam``, ``heat_cam``, and ``acoustics_cam``. It does
not work with ``nav_cam``, which has distortion.

The flag:

    --simulated_data

should be passed to the geometry mapper. The sparse map is not
necessary, no localization will take place, and intrinsics
information, camera transform, and timestamp offset will not be read
from the robot configuration file. Instead, it is expected that each
simulated camera, for example ``sci_cam``, will provide, in addition to an
image topic, the topics

    /sim/sci_cam/pose
    /sim/sci_cam/info

having the pose and intrinsics of each camera image. These should be
recorded in the bag (see more on recording earlier in the document).

It is assumed that the simulated images are not distorted. In particular,
``nav_cam``, which has fisheye lens distortion, is not supported. 

The simulated haz_cam is required to be among the topics being recorded
and read in, because its pose is needed to process the depth clouds.

Example of running the geometry mapper with simulated data:

    sci_topic=/hw/cam_sci/compressed 
    haz_topic=/hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int
    python $ISAAC_WS/src/dense_map/geometry_mapper/tools/geometry_mapper.py \
      --simulated_data                                                      \
      --ros_bag data.bag                                                    \
      --camera_types "sci_cam haz_cam"                                      \
      --camera_topics "$sci_topic $haz_topic"                               \
      --haz_cam_points_topic /hw/depth_haz/points                           \
      --output_dir data_dir                                                 \
      --sampling_spacing_seconds 2                                          \
      --dist_between_processed_cams 0.1                                     \
      --verbose

It is important to check for the correct names for the camera image
topics are passed to ``--camera_topics``.

## Running the streaming mapper

Here we assume that the geometry mapper ran and created a dense 3D
model of the region of interest. Then, the robot is run, whether in
simulation or in the real world. It records images with a camera,
which can be sci cam, nav cam, etc. (see the complete list below),
that we call the "texture images".

The streaming mapper ROS node will then overlay each texture image
received with this camera on top of the 3D model, and publish the
obtained textured model to be visualized. 

### Running with real data

#### When the robot (or nav cam) poses are known

To run the streaming mapper with real data for the given bot, do:

    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    roslaunch isaac isaac_astrobee.launch llp:=disabled nodes:=framestore \
      streaming_mapper:=true output:=screen     

Wait until it finishes forming the texture model, which may take 
30 seconds on more.

Ensure that the ASTROBEE_ROBOT name is correct above.

This node will load the mesh produced by the geometry mapper from 

    $ISAAC_WS/src/isaac/resources/geometry/${ASTROBEE_WORLD}.ply

If an updated geometry mapper mesh exists, it should be copied to that
location first.

It will listen to the robot body pose being published at:

    /gnc/ekf

The tool will read the configuration options from:

    $ISAAC_WS/src/isaac/config/dense_map/streaming_mapper.config

which specifies the camera image to texture. The image topic must be set,
which, for ``sci_cam`` is normally

    /hw/cam_sci/compressed

while for other ``haz_cam`` is:

   /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int

and for other cameras, such as ``nav_cam``, etc., it is of form:

    /hw/cam_nav

For the sci cam, it also expects image exposure data on the topic:

    /hw/sci_cam_exif

to do exposure correction, unlesss in simulation mode or
``sci_cam_exposure_correction`` is set to false. This is not needed
for other cameras.

The streaming mapper will publish several topics having texture
information, which for ``sci_cam`` are:

    /ism/sci_cam/img
    /ism/sci_cam/obj
    /ism/sci_cam/mtl

and an analogous convention is followed for other cameras.

In order for the the streaming mapper to produce texture it should
receive input information with its needed topics, either from a bag or
from the robot in real time.

The header.stamp value for each published message will be the same as
the header.stamp for the corresponding input camera image.

The data produced by the streaming mapper can be recorded with:

    rosbag record /ism/sci_cam/img /ism/sci_cam/obj /ism/sci_cam/mtl \
       -b 10000
    
The recording should start before the input bag is played. The `-b`
option tells ROS to increase its recording buffer size, as sometimes
the streaming mapper can publish giant meshes.

The robot pose that the streaming mapper needs assumes a very accurate
calibration of the IMU sensor in addition to the nav, haz, and sci cam
sensors, and very accurate knowledge of the pose of these sensors on
the robot body. If that is not the case, it is suggested to use the
nav cam pose via the ``nav_cam_pose_topic`` field in
streaming_mapper.config, for which only accurate calibration of the
nav, sci, and haz cameras among each other is assumed.

The input texture can be in color or grayscale, at full or reduced
resolution, and compressed or not. 

#### Running with no robot or nav cam pose information

If no robot body or nav cam pose information is present, for example,
if the EKF or localization node was not running when the image data was
acquired, or this data was not recorded or was not reliable, the
localization node can be started together with the streaming mapper by
modifying the above `roslaunch` command as follows:

    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    roslaunch isaac isaac_astrobee.launch llp:=disabled \
      nodes:=framestore,localization_node               \
      streaming_mapper:=true output:=screen     

and then enabled by running in a separate terminal:

    rosservice call /loc/ml/enable true

Alternatively, the streaming mapper can be started first,
without localization, as:

    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2 # the robot name should be checked
    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    export ISAAC_RESOURCE_DIR=${ISAAC_WS}/src/isaac/resources
    export ISAAC_CONFIG_DIR=${ISAAC_WS}/src/isaac/config        
    roslaunch $ISAAC_WS/src/dense_map/geometry_mapper/launch/streaming_mapper.launch \
      sim_mode:=false output:=screen

Ensure then that nav_cam_pose_topic is set to /loc/ml/features in
streaming_mapper.config and that ekf_state_topic is empty. Also
check the robot name, as earlier.

Then the localization node can be started separately, as:
    
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    roslaunch astrobee astrobee.launch llp:=disabled \
      nodes:=framestore,localization_node output:=screen

with the same environment, including the robot name, and then can be
enabled with a rosservice call as earlier.

This node will expect the nav cam pose to be published on topic
``/hw/cam_nav``. If it is on a different topic, such as
``/mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record``, it needs to be redirected
to this one when playing the bag, such as:

    rosbag play data.bag                                 \
      /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record:=/hw/cam_nav \
      /loc/ml/features:=/tmp/features

Above the /loc/ml/features topic which may exist in the bag is
redirected to /tmp/features since the currently started localization
node will create new such features.
 
The localization node, if needed, will make use of a registered sparse
map with BRISK features, histogram equalization, and a vocabulary
database to find the nav cam poses. The command for building such a
BRISK map from a registered SURF map is:

  cp surf_map.map brisk_map.map 
  $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/sparse_mapping/build_map         \
    --output_map brisk_map.map --rebuild --histogram_equalization \
    --vocab_db

See:

     $ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/localization/sparse_mapping/readme.md

for more information.

If running on a local machine, after the map is rebuilt it should be
copied to:

    $ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR/maps/${ASTROBEE_WORLD}.map

(The ``maps`` directory needs to be created if missing.)

Also see a note earlier in the text for how to reduce the BRISK
thresholds if the map has too few features. For more details on what
the localization node expects, see build_map.md, in the section about
running this node on a local machine.

#### The streaming mapper configuration file

The ``streaming_mapper.config`` file has following fields:

  - mesh_file: Override the location of the mesh described earlier.
  - ekf_state_topic: The topic to listen to for robot pose information.
    It can be set to /gnc/ekf, whose type is ff_msgs::EkfState.
  - ekf_pose_topic: An alternative topic for the robot pose. It can
    be set to /loc/pose, of type geometry_msgs::PoseStamped.
  - nav_cam_pose_topic: The preferred topic for the pose. This
    is the pose of the nav cam, not of the robot, and can be set to 
    /loc/ml/features. It is published by the localization node.
  - texture_cam_type: The camera that creates the texture images
    (can be nav_cam, sci_cam, haz_cam, and in simulation also
    heat_cam, and acoustics_cam). The default is sci_cam. This
    field affects the name of the topics on which the streaming
    mapper publishes its output.
  - texture_cam_topic: The topic having the texture to overlay.
    The default value is /hw/cam_sci/compressed. 
  - dist_between_processed_cams: Once an image is textured and 
    published, how far the camera should move (in meters) before
    it should process another texture (any images arriving
    in between will be ignored). The default is 0.1 meters.
  - max_iso_times_exposure: Apply the inverse gamma transform to
    images, multiply them by max_iso_times_exposure/ISO/exposure_time
    to adjust for lightning differences, then apply the gamma
    transform back. This value should be set to the maximum observed
    ISO * exposure_time. The default is 5.1. Not used with simulated 
    data or when sci_cam_exposure_correction if false.
  - sci_cam_exposure_correction: If set to 'true', correct the
    exposure of sci_cam images.
  - use_single_texture: If set to 'true', use a single texture
    buffer. Sample the images by picking points on each triangle face
    with spacing pixel_size. This can take a couple of minutes to form
    the necessary structures to be able to stream the texture.
  - pixel_size: The pixel size to use with use_single_texture.
    The default is 0.001 meters.
  - num_threads: Number of threads to use. The default is 48.
  - save_to_disk: If set to 'true', save to disk an .obj file for each
    topic published, to be debugged in Meshlab. These will be saved in
    ~/.ros. The default is 'false'.

## Running with simulated data

For simulated data the usage is somewhat different. First,
simulation.config needs to be edited as described earlier in the
document to turn on the simulated sci cam, haz cam, or other desired
camera.

To launch the streaming mapper, one can do the following:

    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    roslaunch isaac sim.launch world:=iss rviz:=true \
      streaming_mapper:=true pose:="11.0 -7.0 5.0 0 0 0 1"   

Then the robot can be moved in order to create images to texture as:

    rosrun mobility teleop -move -pos "11.0 -5.0 5.0" -tolerance_pos 0.0001 \
      -att "0 0 0 1"

With simulated data the pose and intrinsics for each camera are
received directly from the simulator, on topics that, for example for
sci_cam, are:

    /sim/sci_cam/pose
    /sim/sci_cam/info

Hence, the parameters ekf_state_topic, ekf_pose_topic, and
nav_cam_pose_topic are ignored.

Note that value of `ASTROBEE_ROBOT` is not needed in this case.

## Camera refinement

The calibration done with the calibration target can still leave some
residual registration error between the cameras, which manifests
itself as discrepancies in the geometry mapper and streaming mapper
products, and between the nav cam and sci cam textures.

Once a dataset of the robot flying around and performing inspections
is acquired, so in realistic conditions, rather than with a
calibration target, it can be used to further refine the camera
calibration file. This refinement will change the transforms between
the cameras and the intrinsics of the sci cam.

To avoid issues with accuracy of the timestamps of the images, we
assume that the robot is paused, or otherwise moves very slowly,
during each sci cam shot. Then, to refine the camera calibration, the
following approach should be taken.

### Image selection

Select a set of nav cam images around 1 second before and after each
sci cam image using the tool:

    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/image_picker                 \
      --ros_bag mybag.bag                                            \
      --nav_cam_topic /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record          \
      --sci_cam_topic /hw/cam_sci/compressed                         \
      --haz_cam_intensity_topic /hw/depth_haz/extended/amplitude_int \
      --bracket_len 2.0 --output_nav_cam_dir nav_images

Setting up the correct robot name above is very important.

The --bracket_len option brackets sci cam images by nav cam images so
the length of time between these two nav cam images is at most this
value. These nav cam images are saved. Later in camera_refiner sci cam
and haz cam images are picked in each such a nav cam interval. (A
camera's time is first adjusted for the time offset before any of this
happens.) One may consider using a bracket length of 1.0 seconds if
the bot is known to move quickly right after taking a sci cam picture.

The option --nav_cam_to_sci_cam_offset_override_value can be
used if the given bag is suspected to have a different value of this
offset. Such an option the option can be passed also to the camera
refiner below and to the geometry mapper.

Examine these images. Since they are used for bracketing,
there will be pairs of very similar images. Yet, it is good
that there should be no excessive overlap otherwise, so the images
in the first pair better have about 3/4 or 4/5 overlap with
images from other pairs. 

If necessary, add more intermediate images manually, or re-running
this tool with

  --max_time_between_images <val>

It is good to not allow too many images or excessive overlap, but, if
removing excessive images, ensure that each sci cam image is still
bracketed as originally by two nav cam images close in time, and keep
the images in pairs of very similar ones. That is good even if there's
no sci cam images between some pairs, as it is likely haz cam images
are found later in that bracket.

One could start by running this tool with a smaller value of the
--max_time_between_images option, wiping many redundant images while
ensuring there is good overlap among them and keeping pairs of similar
images, then running this tool one more time with a very large value
of this option to ensure the bracketing images for each sci cam image
are added back.

### Map building and registration

Build a sparse map with these images. Use the same environment as
above:

    dir=nav_images
    images=$(ls $dir/*jpg)
    surf_map=${dir}_surf.map
    $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/sparse_mapping/build_map         \
      --output_map $surf_map --feature_detection --feature_matching \
      --track_building --incremental_ba  --bundle_adjustment        \
      --min_valid_angle 1.0 --num_subsequent_images 20 $images 

Notice how we used "--min_valid_angle 1.0". The two images used for
each sci cam and haz cam bracketing will be very similar, and this
will prevent having too many features which result in small
convergence angles between the rays, which may make map-building less
stable.

Register the map. That can be done, for example, by merging this map
with a registered map, bundle-adjusting the obtained map,
re-registering it, then extracting the submap corresponding to the
original images without re-bundle-adjusting the extracted submap to
maintain the same coordinate system as after registration.

This process can be time-consuming. A trick which can speed things up
is to extract a smaller but representative submap from the registered
map, say showing all the walls as our map, and merge and register our
map to this registered submap. That goes as follows.

Examine the existing registered map in nvm_visualize and record in a
list named `list.txt` the images which are similar to the ones in the
map we want to register, one per line (those are printed on the screen
as one navigates through the map in the viewer). A submap of the
registered map can then be extracted, without bundle-adjustment (to
not affect the registration) as:

  $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/sparse_mapping/extract_submap \
      --skip_bundle_adjustment --input_map registered_map.map  \
      --output_map registered_submap.map                       \
      --skip_bundle_adjustment                                 \
      $(cat list.txt)

If desired, this can be rebuilt to ensure it is created with the same
options as the map we want. That can be done as follows:

    build_map --rebuild --rebuild_detector SURF \
      --output_map registered_submap.map

(This does not affect the camera positions and hence the
registration.)

Our map can be merged into this map without modifying the first map,
and hence keeping its registration, as:

    $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/sparse_mapping/merge_maps \
      --fix_first_map                                        \
      --num_image_overlaps_at_endpoints 200                  \
      --min_valid_angle 1.0                                  \
      registered_submap.map $surf_map                        \
      --output_map merged.map

The desired now-registered map can then be extracted as:

    $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/lib/sparse_mapping/extract_submap \
      --skip_bundle_adjustment                                   \
      --input_map merged.map --output_map ${dir}_surf_reg.map    \
      ${dir}/*jpg

Here, $dir points to nav_images as earlier in the document.

### Running the refiner

Next, the refiner tool is run, as shown below. This will overwrite the
camera calibration file, so it may be prudent to start by copying the
existing calibration file to a new name, and set ASTROBEE_ROBOT to
point to that.

    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bsharp2
    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/camera_refiner      \
      --ros_bag mybag.bag --sparse_map mymap.map            \
      --num_iterations 20 --bracket_len 2.0                 \
      --nav_cam_topic /mgt/img_sampler/nav_cam/image_record \
      --output_map output_map.map                           \
      --fix_map --skip_registration --float_scale           \
      --timestamp_interpolation --robust_threshold 3        \
      --sci_cam_intrinsics_to_float                         \
        'focal_length optical_center distortion'            \
      --mesh mesh.ply --mesh_weight 25                      \
      --mesh_robust_threshold 3

Note how we used the same bracket length as in the image picker.

This tool will print some statistics showing the reprojection 
residuals for all camera combinations. This can be helpful
in figuring out if the value of nav_cam_to_sci_cam_timestamp_offset
is correct. If this value is not known well, this tool can be
run with zero or more iterations and various values of 

  --nav_cam_to_sci_cam_offset_override_value <val>

to see which value gives the smallest residuals. The geometry mapper
cam be run with various obtained calibrated files, and see which
causes least amount of registration errors and most agreement between
the nav_cam and sci_cam textures.

A subset of the stats output is as follows:

    The 25, 50 and 75 percentile residual stats before opt
    haznavhaz1: 0.15588849206757516 0.28939657329467749 0.50425806803227147
    haznavhaz2: 0.14321982353646234 0.2810887933143924 0.47081968246287786
    nav1: 0.20133152070741289 0.43912265848302923 0.79663785518573604
    nav2: 0.16416862779482244 0.35723227217511067 0.65759965916544161
    navscinav1: 0.97612783076206711 2.3173228923638192 5.1374205463019109
    navscinav2: 0.73081001251695454 2.3535687733679822 5.6151463474188459
    navscisci1: 0.57405681159248445 1.3846928084816739 3.0725112787539501
    navscisci2: 0.42920106999360996 1.4522176781247396 3.4578275058146062

For the first two lines with stats, a 3D point was found for the haz
and nav camera pair (taking into account pixel matches, the depth
measurement, and camera orientations), it was projected into the haz
camera, and the column (first line) and row (second line) absolute
difference residuals were computed, sorted, and given percentiles were
found. For the next two lines the same logic was used, without depth
measurements, by simply triangulating a 3D point from given nav cam
matches and projecting it back into the nav camera. Other lines of
statistics are to be interpreted analogously.

Above, the options --mesh, --mesh_weight, and --mesh_robust_threshold
were used in order to employ a mesh generated from a previous run of
the geometry mapper with the same dataset as a constraint. This was
found to greatly improve the sci cam intrinsics and extrinsics
parameters as well as the agreement between nav_cam and sci_cam
textures. In a first pass this tool can be used without these mesh
options.

This program's options are:
    --ros_bag: A ROS bag with recorded nav_cam, haz_cam, and 
      full-resolution sci_cam data.
    --sparse_map: A registered SURF sparse map made with some of 
      the ROS bag data, and including nav cam images closely
      bracketing the sci cam images.
    --nav_cam_topic: The nav cam image topic in the bag file.
    --haz_cam_points_topic: The haz cam point cloud topic in the bag file.
    --haz_cam_intensity_topic: The haz cam intensity topic in the bag file.
    --sci_cam_topic: The sci cam image topic in the bag file.
    --start: How many seconds into the bag to start processing the data.
    --duration: For how many seconds to do the processing.
    --max_haz_cam_image_to_depth_timestamp_diff: Use depth
      haz cam clouds that are within this distance in time from the
      nearest haz cam intensity image. The default is 0.2.
    --robust_threshold: Pixel errors much larger than this will be 
      exponentially attenuated to affect less the cost
      function. The default is 1.0.
    --num_cam_iterations: How many solver iterations to perform to
      solve for cam1 intrinsics. The default is 20.
    --bracket_len: Lookup sci and haz cam images only between
      consecutive nav cam images whose distance in time is no more than
      this (in seconds). It is assumed the robot moves slowly and
      uniformly during this time.
    --sci_cam_timestamps: Use only these sci cam timestamps. Must be
      a file with one timestamp per line.
    --float_scale: If to optimize the scale of the clouds (use it if
      the sparse map is kept fixed).
    --fix_map: Do not optimize the sparse map, hence only the camera
      params.
    --sci_cam_intrinsics_to_float: Refine 0 or more of the following
      intrinsics for sci_cam: focal_length, optical_center,
      distortion. Specify as a quoted list. For example:
      'focal_length optical_center distortion'.
    --timestamp_interpolation: If true, interpolate between timestamps. 
      May give better results if the robot is known to move uniformly, and 
      perhaps less so for stop-and-go robot motion.
    --skip_registration: If true, do not re-register the sparse map. 
      Then the hugin and xyz file options need not be provided. 
      This may result in the scale not being correct if the sparse map
      is not fixed.
    --hugin_file: The path to the hugin .pto file used for sparse map 
      registration.
    --xyz_file: The path to the xyz file used for sparse map registration.
    --output_map: The map optimized by this tool (it won't change if the
      option --fix_map is used).
    --num_opt_threads: How many threads to use in the optimization. The 
      default is 16.
    --nav_cam_to_sci_cam_offset_override_value:
      Override the value of nav_cam_to_sci_cam_timestamp_offset from the
      config file with this value.
    --mesh: Refine the sci cam so that the sci cam texture agrees with
      the nav cam texture when projected on this mesh.
    --mesh_weight: A larger value will give more weight to the mesh
      constraint. The mesh residuals printed at the end can be used to
      examine the effect of this weight. Default: 25.0.
    --mesh_robust_threshold: A larger value will try harder to
      minimize large divergences from the mesh (but note that some of
      those may be outliers). Default: 3.0.
    --verbose: Print the residuals and save the images and match files.
      Stereo Pipeline's viewer can be used for visualizing these.

## Orthoprojecting images

Given a camera image, its pose, and a mesh, a useful operation is to
create a textured mesh with this camera. While the geometry mapper can
create textured meshes as well, this tool does so from individual
images rather than fusing them. It uses the logic from the streaming
mapper instead of texrecon which is used by the geometry mapper.

A geometry mapper run directory has all the inputs this tool needs. It
can be run as follows:

    export ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH=$HOME/projects/astrobee/src
    export ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH=$HOME/projects/astrobee
    export ISAAC_WS=$HOME/projects/isaac
    source $ASTROBEE_BUILD_PATH/devel/setup.bash
    source $ISAAC_WS/devel/setup.bash
    export ASTROBEE_RESOURCE_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/resources
    export ASTROBEE_CONFIG_DIR=$ASTROBEE_SOURCE_PATH/astrobee/config
    export ASTROBEE_WORLD=iss
    export ASTROBEE_ROBOT=bumble              
    $ISAAC_WS/devel/lib/geometry_mapper/orthoproject                       \
        --camera_name sci_cam                                              \
        --mesh geom_dir/simplified_mesh.ply                                \
        --image geom_dir/distorted_sci_cam/1616785318.1400001.jpg          \
        --camera_to_world geom_dir/1616785318.1400001_sci_cam_to_world.txt \
        --output_dir out 

This will write out/run.obj and its associated files.
